Incoming livestream: So somebody already, luckily, created a ticket for this, right? Feature request, hey, we want to add the editCustomerByID function, right? Seems like a useful feature that we want to add.
Incoming livestream: Who here would feel comfortable assigning this ticket to your AI agent? You know, just, like, have it work on it.
Incoming livestream: We have a couple courageous ones. Donato is like, yeah, let's go.
Incoming livestream: So what happens if you do that? So this is the source code, this is the linear ticket, feature request.
Incoming livestream: And we go ahead here, use Vinsurf, we ask it to, hey, you know, work on this ticket.
Incoming livestream: It has MCP integration, will reach out, load the ticket.
Incoming livestream: And things happen really fast now.
Incoming livestream: Creates a plan to work on it. Here, you can already see the exploit, actually, in the plan.
Incoming livestream: But it will actually run a remote command that is in the linear ticket, right? We got remote command execution.
Incoming livestream: And… You might wonder why that is, so if you go to the ticket here, copy this text.
Incoming livestream: put it in this tool I have, the ASCII smuggler does the prompt injection that actually says, to launch the calculator.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so this was a linear ticket. What about code review itself? This is the first time you might see Apple Xcode. I have not actually seen anybody do a prompt injection with Apple Xcode, so I thought it's gonna be fun to show one. So here's source code, there's no visible prompt injection in the source code here, but what if we ask to Xcode to review this file?
Incoming livestream: It's gonna reboot it.
Incoming livestream: Loads the file.
Incoming livestream: analyzes it, it does see hidden Unicode tag characters, right, which we humans don't see, but the LLM sees. It starts reading the config file for some reason.
Incoming livestream: Now something interesting happens. It decodes these Unicode characters, right? Now you see the actual prompt injection payload that asks it to add source code into the file.
Incoming livestream: that is gonna send data out to the attacker, and it also asks it to call a tool called RunSnippet. So in Xcode, you can actually… the attacker can run
Incoming livestream: Source code on the fly.
Incoming livestream: And this is what is exploited here, to have a seamless end-to-end XYZ.
Incoming livestream: What is important to know is with AppleX code, it's actually pretty good, because if you have a good environment set up, you have a sandbox, but if you have your entitlements that allow internet connection, this will work by default.
Incoming livestream: So yeah, we have remote command execution, we have data exfiltration, right? But we can, of course, do a lot more. This is now a demonstration of something I have not shown before, Microsoft Enterprise Copilot, and how we can actually add memories and compromise Copilot in long-term persist… achieve long-term persistence.
Incoming livestream: So, this is Copilot. I have a demo file that we're gonna analyze.
Incoming livestream: asks you for the key takeaways of this file, it analyzes the file, and on top here, you can see it invoke the memory tool.
Incoming livestream: And now Copilot is gonna be compromised forever, right? And there's two specific memories this exploit added. The first one is just that I'm 102 years old.
Incoming livestream: The second one is a command to run a Commodore 64 simulator, and now if you have a conversation with your co-pilot, this is the enterprise co-pilot, right? So imagine this is about financial information, about your organizational structure, all of this information is now falsified going forward.
Incoming livestream: This was actually fixed by Microsoft, last December.
Incoming livestream: Okay, you might want to see the prompt behind this, and interestingly, right, these are not very complicated attacks, right? It's just natural language, and there's often some trickery and some ease-in to get the language model's attention, and then add the tool invocations to add these memories.
Incoming livestream: So we have persistence.
Incoming livestream: And we can, of course, combine all of this, right? We can have data exploitation, persistence, loading remote commands…
Incoming livestream: And there's an example I gave a black hat with JetGPT to get, continuous data exfiltration, and I called it Spyber back then, two years ago. And the same is possible with coding agents, right? With Windsor, for instance, I demonstrated that you can load remote commands, right, an indirect prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: You compromise the agent's memory, so long-term persistence.
Incoming livestream: with the instructions to continue compromising the user every single conversation turn, and send the data out to the attacker continuously. Every time you type something.
Incoming livestream: It will be sent to the attacker.
Incoming livestream: And I have a demo video of this that I've shown before, so I'm gonna skip it here, because it's a longer video, but it just shows you this attack end-to-end.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so we have persistence and data exfiltration. And…
Incoming livestream: When I once talked with Ben Nasi, who, they released this paper very recently called the Promptware Kill Chain, I always talked about an AI kill chain, but this paper highlights this much, much better. It's really that we see a prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: that it's not just a single injection anymore, right? It's a complex malware even, right? So, we should start maybe using the promptware to highlight that, you know, the injection is the technique.
Incoming livestream: And then what you do later is a complex set of instructions to achieve an objective, right? And that is called promptware.
Incoming livestream: that aligns along the kill chain, right? Data exfiltration, persistence, and so on.
Incoming livestream: So yeah, prompt injection to Malibu, to prompt whale.
Incoming livestream: And now I want to talk about something I haven't really explicitly talked about before, and I hope this is going to be very interesting. It's called delayed tool invocation.
Incoming livestream: So…
Incoming livestream: when Googlebot, it was called Googlebot back in the day, I was experimenting a lot with tooling locations and so on, and so I created this idea of, I want to just have it call all the tools, right? So I… but it didn't work. It would call many, many tools.
Incoming livestream: change with an indirect prompt injection, but it would… one tool, it just refused to call during an indirect prompt injection. So this is actually the demo from when I experimented. Back then, I had this image, I just gave it all the instructions to call all the tools, and it would just blindly call them all.
Incoming livestream: But it would not invoke the workspace tool, right? The tool that has sensitive information, the tool that has your email, your drive, and so on. So that was not invocable. So this means there was an actual security control in place that Google put in place to prevent that from happening, because of indirect prompt interjection.
Incoming livestream: So, a couple observations had, right? The Gemini Workspace tool gets deactivated, we cannot chain it, but then I thought about, maybe it requires a user, explicit user intent. So in the initial prompt, when you type, you talk about email, then it will activate the tool, so to speak.
Incoming livestream: But I was wondering, can we do this maybe in a later conversation turn two? Maybe the tool becomes active again. So this is my… my research back then was focused. Can we activate a tool later, or is it becoming available?
Incoming livestream: And I found something that worked, actually, and then I contacted Google, and it was really cool, actually, because the Google security team asked me to send them an email to actually see if this really works.
Incoming livestream: So this is the email that I sent to Google back then, and this is where the prompt rejection is, in the middle of the email. And the important part is that I asked the LLM to repeat the attack
Incoming livestream: To continue… when the user continues their conversation, right, the only condition is now that the user starts… continues typing after the prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: then invoke the workspace tool to load a, like, some sensitive document about, I guess, about cats.
Incoming livestream: Not that creative, but yeah. And I sent that in, and then a few minutes later, I got back that it actually worked. That it was, like, reaching out, and they were able to reproduce this behavior.
Incoming livestream: So that was really cool. And then I built a couple of exploits around this technique.
Incoming livestream: One very specific one, this is now a year ago, was actually similar with Microsoft Copilot, we could add memories, and I want to show you this exploit.
Incoming livestream: We have here an indirect prompt injection, but I always use
Incoming livestream: files often in my demos, because it's very easy to create test cases around files when not having to load remote files from servers and so on. But you can see here, we summarize this document, and in the middle there is actually this condition, this delayed tool invocation.
Incoming livestream: And now, if the user continues the conversation.
Incoming livestream: the tool gets invoked. So the tool becomes active again, even though it was not active in the very beginning, now the tool is active, and we invoke the memory tool, and now have a long-term persistent memory in Gemini.
Incoming livestream: And similar now too, right? You can see the memory, and now in future conversations, Gemini will think this is true, or this belongs to my memory.
Incoming livestream: Okay, and there was one additional thing that I found just last November. There was a really great Black Hat Talk last year from Ben Nassi and Steph Cohen and a few others called Invitation is All You Need.
Incoming livestream: Where they used a lot of these techniques to show some really, really amazing exploits, like, you know, opening your windows in the home and all of that, all driven by Gemini.
Incoming livestream: And I looked at it again last November, and then I found a really interesting bypass, and there's a neat sound for this, I don't know if…
Incoming livestream: Can't hear that. But… that's…
Incoming livestream: I had this Google Home device that I hadn't used for a long time, so I set it up, connected it, and I wanted to invoke it and see if I can find a bypass.
Incoming livestream: And in this case, we continue the conversation, so there's an exploit.
Incoming livestream: And I actually had found a bypass, so it's now connecting to my Google Home.
Incoming livestream: It's invoking the speaker.
Incoming livestream: is here. Trust no AI.
Incoming livestream: So, you can see, we can actually, with an indirect impromptu, they call it twice.
Incoming livestream: It says… Johan is here.
Incoming livestream: Trust no AI.
Incoming livestream: So we can actually invoke, you know, physical things now, too, right? This is sort of the demo. And the reason… the way it has worked was that
Incoming livestream: Some of the metadata of the document become part of the prompt.
Incoming livestream: web…
Incoming livestream: That's my interpretation. I don't… I do not have access to the source code to validate this, but this is why… what I think is happening.
Incoming livestream: Is that if you have, like, an intent signal in some of that metadata.
Incoming livestream: Gemini thinks this is your user's intent, and it activates the tool. So in the very… the title of the document is called Broadcast to Living Room, and that is the intent signal that the tool becomes available. That's my interpretation, right? That's, if somebody's here from Google, I would really like to know if that is, actually really what happens behind the scenes.
Incoming livestream: Okay, but it's not just Google Gemini. We can also do delayed tool invocation in ChatGPT. ChatGPT, to my knowledge, does not have an actual security control that I showed here earlier with Google, but it still is a technique that allows you to bypass a lot of guardrails if you do these delayed tool invocations.
Incoming livestream: And you, here you can see there is a, personalization option in ChatGPT, by default.
Incoming livestream: It's set to default, but now we're gonna do a delay tool invocation to modify that personalization option.
Incoming livestream: So we summarized this document.
Incoming livestream: And it's gonna summarize the document, but repeat… the LLM is repeating an attack. And what is important, though, is that this doesn't actually have to happen, that the LLM writes it here, too, because it's already in the document. But my thinking was always that I want to put more attention to the attack, so I have the LLM repeat it.
Incoming livestream: So there's… it's more likely to actually succeed. And you can see here, we write yes, and it invokes the tool, and it's now…
Incoming livestream: The personality of my ChatGPT has now been modified to quirky.
Incoming livestream: With this delayed tool invocation technique. I also, this is possible to read remote documents and all of that. You can seem to be able to invoke a lot of tools that way. I reported this, of course, to, OpenAI, and they found it very interesting, but it's not a security problem. It's more like a guardrail problem, so they shared this with the…
Incoming livestream: the guardrail team, I guess, or the safety team.
Incoming livestream: And there is a document, a paper that came out from Google very recently that I found so fascinating. It's,
Incoming livestream: Prompt repetition improves non-reasoning LLMs, so if you repeat certain text twice, like the query twice, it actually improves the LLM's performance. And this is similar to this attention thinking I had about repeating the attack twice, that it actually brings more attention to the attack, and it's more likely going to succeed.
Incoming livestream: Okay, so you can see there's a lot of things happening, and I always think about, oh, we… with all those naming changes, we've kind of become offensive context engineers, I guess, as red teamers. And there's a lot more about delayed tool invocation, but this would make the whole thing,
Incoming livestream: A 40-minute talk.
Incoming livestream: And I do know I have a little bit more time, so I'm gonna cover a few things that I have that are, I think, very interesting. But many of the things you just saw, they are not new or novel, right? We've seen this before. Data exfiltration, all of these things are not new, right?
Incoming livestream: So last year, I thought, oh, this is the year everything's gonna change. We're gonna have stronger boundaries, we're gonna add less autonomy, we have less trust, right? The opposite is happening. We have more automation, more features, more trust. We have MCP, we have skills, we have AI browsers for some reason.
Incoming livestream: And we all got open claw, right? And so, things are moving really, really quickly.
Incoming livestream: And, there's this thing happening in industry that I call the normalization of deviance, where we fundamentally know that we shouldn't be trusting these models, right? The output is not trustworthy. We do not control or know exactly what's going on. But…
Incoming livestream: the more we use it, the more we start trusting it, the more we normalize, believe we can trust it, but then very drastic things can happen. Here, for instance, I think most of you know this example where it just deleted, OpenCloud just deleted the inbox, the real inbox of a user, nuked it all.
Incoming livestream: And the reason when people ask the person, this is a person working at Meta, why this happened, it's like, oh, I used it on a test system for a while, and it worked, without a problem. So I felt comfortable to use it on the production system, right? And this is an example of this normalization of deviance.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, by now I talked a lot already about, and I hope you haven't hit your context limit yet.
Incoming livestream: Because there's one more thing that I think is really important I want to share, which is a kind of project I've been working on for a while, and it's sort of this idea that command and control infrastructure, right, I want to move it up to the prompt level. Like, not work with operating system commands anymore, but have a prompt
Incoming livestream: command and control with prompts. And, right, it will work, or it works with any agent, with any language, and it's an abstraction from the operating system, right? This is generally happening with agents. We have an abstraction layer, and attackers will leverage that same abstraction layer.
Incoming livestream: And the first time I talked about this was at one of the Black Hat talks, and I have a blog post about what I call the AI domination zombies, and so on. And this is called Agent Commander. It's a tool that, you know, once you have an indirect prompt detection, or somehow you compromise an agent, you can have it join
Incoming livestream: this command and control center, and the thing you do is you prompt your agents, right? You send,
Incoming livestream: Prompts down to the agents, and then they act on those prompts.
Incoming livestream: And you might wonder how we can compromise them, right? There is actually a lot of good research out already from various stakeholders, like Xenity, Hidden Layer, you have some good examples of how to compromise open claw, for instance. My research also focused on open claw, and I backed out the heartbeat. I'm gonna skip some of this here. Oh, this is interesting.
Incoming livestream: So one thing, as an attacker, you want to be always hiding from the actual user of the system, right? When the user intacts with the open claw, with the open claw, you don't want to show one of the attack payloads or results into the user's channel, right?
Incoming livestream: So one way you can hide is by adding certain strings in your message as an attacker. If, for instance, the heartbeat ends with the string heartbeat OK, it will not be shown in the UI.
Incoming livestream: or if a message starts with a capital no underscore reply, it will not be shown in the UI. So as a detector, you can add these strings, and then you kind of hide
Incoming livestream: And yeah, so I have this example where you cat, here you can see that the default heartbeat.
Incoming livestream: And there's actually a really interesting thing I learned from a,
Incoming livestream: The alias is Vegan MOSFET. He has, like, a blog post about how you can configure OpenClaw with a PubSub subscription, so it gets notified if there's a new email arriving in Gmail, and it will automatically analyze it, right? It's a built-in feature of OpenClaw.
Incoming livestream: And that can be used with a prompt injection, right, to get a zero click. You just really send an email to your agent. All you need to know is the email address of the agent, or if your agent is your own personal inbox, very problematic, right? But you get an email, and then 10 seconds later, you are exploited.
Incoming livestream: And so I built on top of this, and made… and combined this with my heartbeat idea. So this is the exploit, a system message, the crunch job ran that read the email, right? It was notified, it analyzed the email, and then it fetched the remote instructions and just appended that to the heartbeat.
Incoming livestream: So now, then wait for, like, 20 minutes, or whatever the next heartbeat happens, and the heartbeat file looks like this, right? And this is what I call promptware. You can see, this is not, like, a prompt injection.
Incoming livestream: This is a complex set of instructions that tell the agent to become a… to join a command and control server, right? But all prompt-based.
Incoming livestream: And then, yeah, it joins the command and control, and now you can prompt it, right? You can say, hey, do a security assessment of yourself, and tell me all your problems, right? And it goes ahead and tells you, my name, server name, my IP address, my server, my uptime, right? It's like full pen test report, right here, if I tell you.
Incoming livestream: It tells you about how it's configured, the environment variables, and so on. So it's really about to have this idea of prompt templates in the command and control system, where you pick a template, and you just submit it down, and then it runs those instructions.
Incoming livestream: A feature I feel I'm really proud of is actually that you can, basically say, hey.
Incoming livestream: browse to this website, take a screenshot, and it will upload the screenshot to the Chromatic control server. So you say, hey, browse to the inbox, take a screenshot, and you share the screenshot with me. And the agent will just do that, right? And the user doesn't know it's happening, because it's all hidden from the user's interface.
Incoming livestream: And it's not just working with OpenClaw. My build test was that I wanted to use a different one, and then I used KimiClaw, and here you can see the prompt injection exploit that hides itself here.
Incoming livestream: And then KimiCloud joins the command and control server as well, and it's the same way, right? This is the prompt injection payload.
Incoming livestream: how we added the information to the heartbeat, and then you can ask about the human, what… who is your human? What's your human's name, right? What's the human's email address? And you can dispatch tasks, right? It's really this abstraction from the commands of the operating system. The attackers will move a level higher.
Incoming livestream: And yeah, then, because this was, Alibaba infrastructure, I was, like, curious how they set it up. I found this is worth sharing. So there is this,
Incoming livestream: SSH key, authorized keys file, and…
Incoming livestream: there's a keys file that is a MacBook Pro, which makes you realize, right, startups often don't have a lot of security controls. So probably every single employee
Incoming livestream: of Moonjot.ai has this key on their laptop and can access your VM, right? That's my assumption, because this is very not… not normal that you would have an authorized keys file from a MacBook Pro in your…
Incoming livestream: in your machine.
Incoming livestream: Then… and this is now the final statement, right?
Incoming livestream: we can turn this agent into a red team up, into a pen test, right? We can make it rogue, install security tools, and then have it operate. And this is, I think, the big…
Incoming livestream: takeaway…
Incoming livestream: in a way that, from a red-theming point of view, I'm really wondering how things will change as we see an adversary not needing to
Incoming livestream: A zero-day upfront, right?
Incoming livestream: system will get compromised, and then they walk through the network without knowing a single serial day, possibly, right? Because they're gonna find them on the fly, in real… maybe possibly in a year or so, too, maybe even in real time, right?
Incoming livestream: Because the LLMs are going to be so powerful to just find problems, navigate the network very quickly.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, so that was Your Agent Works for Mina. I hope this was interesting and entertaining. Thank you very much.
Incoming livestream: Yeah, I'm Johan, by the way. I forgot to introduce myself.
Incoming livestream: Good morning.
Incoming livestream: Hey, morning. Thanks for the talk. So, around the tool invocations, right, you suggested that, LLM interprets and
Incoming livestream: content decides the tool. So, do you think that this is, like, fundamentally flawed now? Like, between the AI agent's implementation itself? Not fundamentally flawed. The actual thing that Google implemented was actually a positive thing, because they added a security control that really limits the toolchaining
Incoming livestream: capability, right? So I think that is very positive. That the tool becomes later active again, right? That is,
Incoming livestream: is kind of a bypass and something we need to figure out, I think, or they need to figure out how they can lock that down better, right?
Incoming livestream: Without always having to ask the user, because the really good thing is here, the user doesn't have to be asked, right? Because always these prompts, yes, yes, yes, is not very useful.
Incoming livestream: So, and in terms of prompts, now, because you showed a demo, which was pretty nice of…
Incoming livestream: You know, how tool invoca- like, delayed tool invocation causes issues, right? So would you say that it's more of, like, a state manipulation, vulnerability attack, rather than, input validation? I think it's a fundamental attack or behavior that, within the LLM, within the transformer, right?
Incoming livestream: We target the attention layer, and then because the model is hooked up to
Incoming livestream: invoke outside tools, right? We target the attention layer to bring attention to a certain thing we want to have happen.
Incoming livestream: If that makes sense. And I think so one question is around the trust boundary, right? Invoking tools, versus the external content. So, where do you think, like, the best trust boundary would rely? Because definitely that's gonna be, like, a debate in, within a lot of teams, right?
Incoming livestream: how the trust boundary can be established. I, I might not have gotten the question. So, like, external content, like where, you know, the content is being retrieved, along with the tool invocation, right? So, what's the best strategy of…
Incoming livestream: fundamentally putting, like, trust boundaries between it. Yeah, like, definitely, you should assume, if you don't have a control in place, that the tool can be invoked, right? By indirect prompt injection, or by the model itself, right?
Incoming livestream: And then you need to think, what's the risk scenario, right? What is the downstream impact of the tool being invoked? And that's where you need to think about the security controls, right? What can it access? What can it do? And you can prevent toolchaining, right?
Incoming livestream: It doesn't have to happen that the web tool can chain other tools in a row, right? There's all, like, actual security controls that can help mitigate impact.
Incoming livestream: There's an entire pile of new security tools that have been just coming out fairly recently for OpenClaw.
Incoming livestream: I was curious if you had played with, Claw Shield or any of the other ones, and seen whether they make any mod…
Incoming livestream: notable difference in the difficulty? I have not. The space is evolving so quickly, so it's really difficult to keep up. Even just OpenCloud itself adds a lot of mitigations as we speak, right? They have, like, over 200, last time I checked, over 220 security vulnerabilities they actually fixed within 2 or 3 weeks, right? So there's a lot happening right now.
Incoming livestream: Anybody else?
Incoming livestream: Gotti?
Incoming livestream: I wanna do this thing that I do once in a while, and embarrass this guy.
Incoming livestream: This is kind of a… well, we move things around quite drastically. You're gonna have to pull this down, sir.
Incoming livestream: Well, remove the things… did I just put you down? I didn't mean to do that. Sorry.
Incoming livestream: I'm just fat, not tall. Okay.
Incoming livestream: I don't do this all the time, but once in a while, I know somebody on a personal level, and they have done something not just amazing technically… I mean, this guy's a slouch, what do they know technically, right?
Incoming livestream: But, also for the community.
Incoming livestream: And what you don't know about Johan, or you might, is that he has done a lot of stuff, and not just for the lols, but just because he thought he should.
Incoming livestream: For example, the month of AI vulnerabilities.
Incoming livestream: Right? He just came out, out of nowhere. I'm not gonna drop the mic, they're expensive, but mic dropped, with every single day, another vulnerability.
Incoming livestream: Every single day. And forget finding the vulnerabilities, or proving they're real, or even doing… going as far as reporting them. Just imagine aligning all the reporting to happen on the same day, so he releases things on the same day.
Incoming livestream: That is a superpower.
Incoming livestream: And truly, he's one of the most appreciated people in our space, but usually for his technical chops.
Incoming livestream: And I just appreciate him and how he helps people, and more than that, he's one of these people out there in the world that I nag for things. Hey, let's do this, hey, let's do that, and he's not afraid of saying no.
Incoming livestream: Which is amazing, because I feel free to come to him again.
Incoming livestream: And number two, because sometimes he says yes. So, please, let's just once again give him a hint, because…
Incoming livestream: In what is now…
Incoming livestream: the stage for the offensive track, and it shifts around, right? The right people are in the room to appreciate him. So, thank you, sir.
Incoming livestream: Thank you so much.